**Insecure storage**
A best practice is to save as little sensitive data as possible in a mobile device’s permanent local storage. However, at least some user data must be stored on most mobile devices. Both Android and iOS provide secure storage APIs that allow mobile app developers to use the cryptographic hardware available on the mobile platform. If these resources are used correctly, sensitive data and files can be secured via hardware-based strong encryption. However, mobile app developers often do not use these secure storage APIs successfully, and an attacker could leverage these vulnerabilities. For example, the iOS Keychain is designed to securely store sensitive information, such as encryption keys and session tokens. It uses an SQLite database that can be accessed through the Keychain APIs only. An attacker could use static analysis or reverse engineering to see how applications create keys and store them in the Keychain.

**Passcode vulnerabilities and biometrics integrations**
Often mobile users “unlock” a mobile device by providing a valid PIN (passcode) or password or by using biometric authentication, such as fingerprint scanning or face recognition. Android and iOS provide different methods for integrating local authentication into mobile applications. Vulnerabilities in these integrations could lead to sensitive data exposure and full compromise of the mobile device. Attacks such as the objection biometric bypass attack can be used to bypass local authentication in iOS and Android devices. OWASP provides guidance on how to test iOS local authentication at [_https://github.com/OWASP/owasp-mstg/blob/master/Document/0x06f-Testing-Local-Authentication.md_](https://github.com/OWASP/owasp-mstg/blob/master/Document/0x06f-Testing-Local-Authentication.md). also local > [[0x06f-Testing-Local-Authentication]]

**Certificate pinning**
Attackers use certificate pinning to associate a mobile app with a particular digital certificate of a server. The purpose is to avoid accepting any certificate signed by a trusted certificate authority (CA). The idea is to force the mobile app to store the server certificate or public key and subsequently establish connections only to the trusted/known server (referred to as “pinning” the server). The goal of certificate pinning is to reduce the attack surface by removing the trust in external CAs. There have been many incidents in which CAs have been compromised or tricked into issuing certificates to impostors. Attackers have tried to bypass certificate pinning by jailbreaking mobile devices and using utilities such as SSL Kill Switch 2 (see [_https://github.com/nabla-c0d3/ssl-kill-switch2_](https://github.com/nabla-c0d3/ssl-kill-switch2)) or Burp Suite Mobile Assistant app or by using binary patching and replacing the digital certificate.

**Using known vulnerable components**
Attackers may leverage known vulnerabilities against the underlying mobile operating system, or dependency vulnerabilities (that is, vulnerabilities in dependencies of a mobile application). Patching fragmentation is one of the biggest challenges in Android-based implementations. Android fragmentation is the term applied to the numerous Android versions that are supported or not supported by different mobile devices. Keep in mind that Android is not only used in mobile devices but also in IoT environments. Some mobile platforms or IoT devices may not support a version of Android that has addressed known security vulnerabilities. Attackers can leverage these compatibility issues and limitations to exploit such vulnerabilities.

**Execution of activities using root and over-reach of permissions**
Application developers must practice the least privilege concept. That is, they should not allow mobile applications to run as root and should give them only the access they need to perform their tasks.

**Business logic vulnerabilities**
An attacker can use legitimate transactions and flows of an application in a way that results in a negative behavior or outcome. Most common business logic problems are different from the typical security vulnerabilities in applications (such as XSS, CSRF, and SQL injection). A challenge with business logic flaws is that they can’t typically be found by using scanners or any other similar tools.

